[Music]
what would happen if you never left your
bed let's be honest here all of us even
the morning birds and go-getters have
those days when we just cannot for the
life of us get our butts out of bed
whatever the reason bad weather
tiredness or a criminally comfy mattress
there have probably been plenty of times
when you thought to yourself
if only I could stay in bed forever so
what if you did just that what if you
actually decided to never get out of bed
well given the horrible effects it would
have on your physical and mental health
you'd quickly regret your decision and
here's why bedsores the first
consequence you'd see in this situation
is bed sores they appear if some part of
the body experiences unrelieved pressure
in the case of a person staying in bed
forever it is not a pretty picture
just imagine all your muscles fatty
tissues blood vessels and skin gets
squeezed between the mattress and the
weight of your body
this pressure cuts off blood supply to
your soft tissues starving your cells of
much-needed nutrients carried by the
blood as a result these tissues
eventually die especially in the areas
of the body under the greatest amount of
pressure bed sores are most likely to
appear around the knees elbows shoulder
blades heels ankles and tailbone all of
this of course doesn't happen overnight
but in stages stage one is the mildest
it's during this initial phase that a
person start seeing redness and
inflammation in the affected skin which
brings on pain itching and burning in
the areas of the bed sores when you
touch them these spots can be softer or
firmer than the surrounding tissues and
they can be cooler or warmer than the
rest of the body this mild stage sounds
pretty scary but the good news is that
these initial sores go away after three
days max once you've relieved the
pressure
Stage two is when you'll see broken skin
and ulcers and it just gets worse from
there you can expect open wounds at
stage three and deep craters of dead
tissue at Stage four and if the second
stage can get better in about three
weeks the third and fourth take anywhere
from three months to as long as a year
to heal muscular atrophy as time goes by
and your bedsores keep getting worse and
worse you can also expect to feel weaker
and weaker and that's because your
muscles are sitting there idling unused
muscles start to lose from 20 to 30% of
their strength after just one week of
bed rest and after a month your muscle
mass will be cut down by 50% remember
that it takes much longer to regain
muscle strength than it does to lose it
as a result of atrophied muscles your
coordination and balance will actually
get worse and this in turn increases
your risk of having a nasty fall
decreased bone density just like your
muscles your bones aren't getting any
use either they're supposed to support
your body weight against gravity but
since they're not doing that anymore
they'll start to lose density after
sometime your bones will be left with
just 40 to 70% of their initial mass the
bones and your legs are especially
vulnerable to this disintegration and
remember how your atrophied muscles
increase your risk of falling well now
your weak bones have a higher chance of
breaking even after a minor fall
deteriorated joints remaining and mobile
also causes joint problems the cartilage
around your joints starts to deteriorate
leading to limited joint movement at the
same time the muscles especially in the
shoulders knees and hips become shorter
and connective tissue gets thicker as a
result when or if you decide to get out
of bed simply walking will be like
mission impossible cardiovascular
problems after just a couple of days in
bed blood will start to pool in your
legs your heart
in an attempt to get that blood moving
start beating more quickly one beat per
minute faster every two days this will
all be to no avail your circulation and
blood volume will still decrease
dramatically with the less blood in your
body your organs will get less oxygen
fatigue will set in extremely fast and
your stamina will drop significantly
your blood itself will become thick and
sticky this can turn out to be extremely
dangerous due to the risk of a blood
clot forming especially in the lungs and
legs increased risk of pneumonia
prolonged bed rest will elevate your
risk of lung tissue collapse and
pneumonia this is because your muscles
won't be working to remove excess
liquids from your body so fluid will
start accumulating in the lungs and
since you're lying flat on your back in
a bed your lungs won't be able to fully
expand and fill with air this decreased
the lung volume means your breathing
will get more and more shallow and the
exchange of oxygen with carbon dioxide
in your lungs will worsen this of course
will starve your tissues of oxygen
metabolic changes a long period of
immobility will lead to both hormonal
changes in your body as well as a
mineral imbalance and since you're not
moving and burning calories you can
expect to see more body fat building
plus if your muscles aren't moving
they're likely to develop reduced
insulin sensitivity resulting in high
blood sugar levels and diabetes the
brains reaction don't expect that your
brain will come out of this unharmed
prolonged bed rest often leads to
cognitive and mental problems from
confusion irritability and insomnia to
apathy depression and panic attacks of
course none of this is really that
terrifying since it's all hypothetical
right wrong it's very real and very
possible
in fact it's happened before NASA will
actually pay you eighteen thousand
dollars to lie in bed for seventy days
so they can see what it does to your
body
Giroux Iowa Niki who took part in one of
these studies described his personal
experience over the trial
when he got up from his bed for the
first time in over two months he could
hardly stand up the researchers wanted
him to try to stand for at least 15
minutes
but even this turned out to be a
challenge when he tried his legs felt
incredibly heavy and his heart rate
reached top speeds of 150 beats per
minute
he remembered feeling really itchy
probably because he was covered in sweat
his balance was all messed up as well as
his coordination after just eight
minutes of simply standing his pulse
suddenly dropped to 70 beats per minute
and his vision started to go back
noticing that their patient was about to
pass out medical staff quickly returned
him to bed it's no surprise that the guy
couldn't even hold himself up being that
he'd lost more than 20% of his blood
volume over the course of the experiment
during these 70 days the researchers
collected data to better understand how
space flights and hibernation would
affect the human body so they used an
x-ray machine to check Andrews bone
density and any changes in his bone
structure they captured his air intake
in a plastic bubble and a different
machine measured his muscle atrophy but
most of the time the human guinea pig
was left all alone after three weeks of
lying flat on a bed I wa Nicky felt like
he was starting to go through
psychological changes he didn't talk to
his friends or family as much simply
because he had no news to share he also
felt anxious and afraid of the upcoming
weeks
however after ten weeks of bed rest he
admitted that the experiment had given
him much more than just a fat check he
started to appreciate simple everyday
things like sunshine fresh air and so
much more hopefully this video has
helped you understand why you shouldn't
stay in bed forever no matter how
tempting it is when you're completely
exhausted
remember it's not as perfect as it
sounds what about your bedtime habits
how many hours a day do you spend in
your cozy nest tell us in the comments
below don't forget to click subscribe to
stay on the bright side of life
you